1.
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was
with God, and the Word was God.
The same was in the beginning with God.
All things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made.
In him was life, and the life was the light of men, and the light shineth in darkness,
and the darkness comprehended it not.
There was a man sent from God, whose name was John, the same came for a witness, to
bear witness of the light, that all men through him might believe.
He was not that light, but was sent to bear witness of that light, that was the true light,
which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.
He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not.
He came unto his own, and his own received him not.
But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to
his name, which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will
of man, but of God.
And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as
of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth.
John bare witness of him, and cried, saying, This was he of whom I spake, he that cometh
after me, is preferred before me, for he was before me.
And of his fullness have all we received, and grace for grace.
For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ.
No man hath seen God at any time.
The only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him.
And this is the record of John.
When the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou?
And he confessed, and denied not, but confessed, I am not the Christ.
And they asked him, What then?
Art thou Elias?
And he saith, I am not.
Art thou that prophet?
And he answered, No.
Then said they unto him, Who art thou, that we may give an answer to them that sent us?
What sayest thou of thyself?
He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord.
As said the prophet Esaias, And they which were sent were of the Pharisees.
And they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then, if thou be not that Christ,
nor Elias, neither that prophet?
John answered them, saying, I baptize with water.
But there standeth one among you, whom ye know not.
He it is, who coming after me is preferred before me, whose shoes latch it, I am not worthy to unloose.
These things were done in Bethabara, beyond Jordan, where John was baptizing.
The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, And saith, Behold, the Lamb of God,
which taketh away the sin of the world.
This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man, which is preferred before me.
For he was before me, and I knew him not.
But that he should be made manifest to Israel, Therefore am I come, baptizing with water.
And John bare record, saying, I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him.
And I knew him not.
But he that sent me to baptize with water, the same said unto me.
Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending and remaining on him,
the same is he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost.
And I saw, and bare record, that this is the Son of God.
Again the next day after, John stood, and two of his disciples,
and looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith, Behold, the Lamb of God.
And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus.
Then Jesus turned, and saw them following, and saith unto them, What seek ye?
They said unto him, Rabbi, which is to say, being interpreted, Master, where dwellest thou?
He saith unto them, Come and see.
They came, and saw where he dwelt, and abode with him that day, for it was about the tenth hour.
One of the two which heard John speak, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.
He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messiahs,
which is, being interpreted, the Christ.
And he brought him to Jesus, and when Jesus beheld him, he said, Thou art Simon, the son of Jonah.
Thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation, a stone.
The day following, Jesus would go forth into Galilee, and findeth Philip, and saith unto him, Follow me.
Now Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.
Philip findeth Nathaniel, and saith unto him, We have found him, of whom Moses in the law and the prophets did write,
Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.
And Nathaniel said unto him, Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth?
Philip saith unto him, Come and see.
Jesus saw Nathaniel coming to him, and saith of him, Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile.
Nathaniel saith unto him, Once knowest thou me?
Jesus answered and said unto him, Before that Philip called thee, When thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee.
Nathaniel answered and saith unto him, Rabbi, thou art the son of God, thou art the king of Israel.
Jesus answered and said unto him, Because I said unto thee, I saw thee under the fig tree, believest thou?
Thou shalt see greater things than these.
And he saith unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Hereafter ye shall see heaven open,
and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the son of man.
Chapter 2
And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there,
and both Jesus was called and his disciples to the marriage.
And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him, They have no wine.
Jesus saith unto her, Woman, What have I to do with thee? Mine hour is not yet come.
His mother saith unto the servants, Whatsoever ye saith unto you, do it.
And there were set there six water-pots of stone, after the manner of the purifying of the Jews,
containing two or three firkins apiece.
Jesus saith unto them, Fill the water-pots with water, and they filled them up to the brim.
And he saith unto them, Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast, and they bear it.
When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine,
and knew not whence it was, but the servants which drew the water knew,
the governor of the feast called the bridegroom, and saith unto him,
Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine, and when men have well drunk, then that which is worse.
But thou hast kept the good wine until now.
This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee,
and manifested forth his glory, and his disciples believed on him.
After this he went down to Capernaum, he and his mother and his brethren, and his disciples,
and they continued there not many days.
And the Jews' Passover was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem,
and found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep and doves, and the changers of money sitting.
And when he had made a scourge of small cords, he drove them all out of the temple and the sheep and the oxen,
and poured out the changers' money, and overthrew the tables, and said unto them that sold doves,
Take these things hence, make not my father's house, and house of merchandise.
And his disciples remembered that it was written, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up.
Then answered the Jews, and said unto him,
What signs showest thou unto us, seeing that thou doest these things?
Jesus answered, and said unto them,
Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.
Then said the Jews,
Forty and six years was this temple in building,
And wilt thou rear it up in three days?
But he spake of the temple of his body.
When therefore he was risen from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this unto them,
and they believed the scripture, and the word which Jesus had said.
Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover, in the feast day,
many believed in his name when they saw the miracles which he did.
But Jesus did not commit himself unto them,
because he knew all men, and needed not that any should testify of man,
for he knew what was in man.
Chapter 3
There was a man of the Pharisees,
named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews.
The same came to Jesus by night, and said unto him,
We know that thou art a teacher come from God,
for no man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be with him.
Jesus answered and said unto him,
Verily, verily, I say unto thee,
Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
Nicodemus saith unto him,
How can a man be born when he is old?
Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb and be born?
Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee,
Except a man be born of water, and of the Spirit,
he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
That which is born of the flesh is flesh,
and that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit.
Marvel not that I said unto thee, ye must be born again.
The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof,
but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth.
So is every one that is born of the Spirit.
Nicodemus answered and said unto him,
How can these things be?
Jesus answered and said unto him,
Art thou a master of Israel, and knowest not these things?
Verily, verily, I say unto thee,
We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen,
and ye receive not our witness.
If I have told you earthly things, and ye believe not,
how shall ye believe, if I tell you of heavenly things?
And no man hath ascended up to heaven,
but he that came down from heaven,
even the Son of Man which is in heaven.
And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness,
even so must the Son of Man be lifted up,
that whosoever believeth in him should not perish,
but have eternal life.
For God so loved the world,
that he gave his only begotten Son,
that whosoever believeth in him should not perish,
but have everlasting life.
For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world,
but that the world through him might be saved.
He that believeth on him is not condemned,
but he that believeth not is condemned already,
because he hath not believed in the name
of the only begotten Son of God.
And this is the condemnation,
that light is come into the world,
and men loved darkness rather than light,
because their deeds were evil.
For every one that doeth evil hateth the light,
neither cometh to the light,
lest his deeds should be reproved.
But he that doeth truth cometh to the light,
that his deeds may be made manifest,
that they are wrought in God.
After these things came Jesus and his disciples
into the land of Judea,
and there he tarried with them and baptized.
And John also was baptizing in Aenea near to Salim,
because there was much water there,
and they came and were baptized.
For John was not yet cast into prison,
and there arose a question between some of John's disciples
and the Jews about purifying.
And they came unto John, and said unto him,
Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond Jordan,
to whom thou bearest witness, behold,
that same baptizeth, and all men come to him.
John answered and said,
A man can receive nothing,
except it be given him from heaven.
Ye yourselves bear me witness,
that I said I am not the Christ,
but that I am sent before him.
He that hath the bride is the bridegroom,
but the friend of the bridegroom,
which standeth and heareth him,
rejoiceth greatly,
because of the bridegroom's voice.
This my joy therefore is fulfilled.
He must increase, but I must decrease.
He that cometh from above is above all.
He that is of the earth is earthly,
and speaketh of the earth.
He that cometh from heaven is above all.
And what he hath seen and heard,
that he testifieth,
and no man receiveth his testimony.
He that hath received his testimony,
hath set to his seal that God is true.
For he whom God hath sent,
speaketh the words of God.
For God giveth not the Spirit by measure unto him.
The Father loveth the Son,
and hath given all things into his hand.
He that believeth on the Son,
hath everlasting life.
And he that believeth not the Son,
shall not see life,
but the wrath of God abideth on him.
Chapter 4
When therefore the LORD knew how the Pharisees had heard
that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John,
though Jesus himself baptized not but his disciples,
he left Judea and departed again into Galilee,
and he must needs go through Samaria.
Then cometh he to a city in Samaria,
which is called Sychar,
near to the parcel of ground
that Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
Now Jacob's well was there.
Jesus therefore, being wearied with his journey,
sat thus on the well,
and it was about the sixth hour.
There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water.
Jesus saith unto her,
Give me to drink,
for his disciples were gone away unto the city to buy meat.
Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him,
How is it that thou, being a Jew,
askest drink of me,
which am a woman of Samaria?
For the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans.
Jesus answered and said unto her,
If thou knewest the gift of God,
and who it is that saith to thee,
Give me to drink,
thou wouldest have asked of him,
and he would have given thee living water.
The woman saith unto him,
Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with,
and the well is deep.
From whence then hast thou that living water?
Art thou greater than our father Jacob,
which gave us the well and drank thereof himself,
and his children, and his cattle?
Jesus answered and said unto her,
Whosoever drinketh of this water
shall thirst again.
But whosoever drinketh of the water
that I shall give him
shall never thirst.
But the water that I shall give him
shall be in him a well of water
springing up into everlasting life.
The woman saith unto him,
Sir, give me this water,
that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw.
Jesus saith unto her,
Go, call thy husband, and come hither.
The woman answered and said,
I have no husband.
Jesus said unto her,
Thou hast well said, I have no husband,
for thou hast had five husbands,
and he whom thou now hast
is not thy husband.
In that saidest thou truly.
The woman saith unto him,
Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet.
Our fathers worshiped in this mountain,
and ye say that in Jerusalem
is the place where men ought to worship.
Jesus saith unto her,
Woman, believe me,
the hour cometh,
when ye shall neither in this mountain
nor yet at Jerusalem worship the Father.
Ye worship, ye know not what.
We know what we worship,
for salvation is of the Jews.
But the hour cometh, and now is,
when the true worshipers shall worship the Father,
in spirit and in truth,
for the Father seeketh such to worship him.
God is a spirit,
and they that worship him
must worship him in spirit and in truth.
The woman saith unto him,
I know that Messiah's cometh,
which is called Christ.
When he is come,
he will tell us all things.
Jesus saith unto her,
I that speak unto thee am he.
And upon this came his disciples,
and marvelled that he talked with the woman.
Yet no man said,
What seekest thou?
or, Why talkest thou with her?
The woman then left her water-pot,
and went her way into the city,
and saith to the men,
Come see a man,
which told me all things,
that ever I did,
is not this the Christ.
Then they went out of the city,
and came unto him.
In the meanwhile,
his disciples prayed him,
saying, Master, eat.
But he said unto them,
I have meat to eat,
that ye know not of.
Therefore said the disciples one to another,
Hath any man brought him ought to eat?
Jesus saith unto them,
My meat is to do the will of him that sent me,
and to finish his work.
Say not ye,
there are yet four months,
and then cometh harvest?
Behold, I say unto you,
lift up your eyes,
and look on the fields,
for they are white already to harvest.
And he that reapeth receiveth wages,
and gathereth fruit unto life eternal,
that both he that soweth,
and he that reapeth,
may rejoice together.
And herein is that saying true,
one soweth,
and another reapeth.
I sent you to reap,
that whereon ye bestowed no labour.
Other men laboured,
and ye are entered into their labours.
And many of the Samaritans of that city
believed on him,
for the saying of the woman which testified,
he told me all that ever I did.
So when the Samaritans
were come unto him,
they besought him,
that he would tarry with them,
and he abode there two days.
And many more believed
because of his own word,
and said unto the woman,
Now we believe,
not because of thy saying,
for we have heard him ourselves,
and know that this is indeed the Christ,
the Saviour of the world.
Now after two days,
he departed thence,
and went into Galilee,
for Jesus himself testified,
that a prophet hath no honour
in his own country.
Then when he was come into Galilee,
the Galileans received him,
having seen all the things
that he did at Jerusalem,
at the feast,
for they also went unto the feast.
So Jesus came again
into Cana of Galilee,
where he made the water wine.
And there was a certain nobleman,
whose son was sick at Capernaum.
When he heard that Jesus
was come out of Judea into Galilee,
he went unto him,
and besought him,
that he would come down
and heal his son,
for he was at the point of death.
Then Jesus said unto him,
Except ye see signs and wonders,
ye will not believe.
The nobleman saith unto him,
Sir, come down,
ere my child die.
Jesus saith unto him,
Go thy way, thy son liveth.
And the man believed
the word that Jesus had spoken unto him,
and he went his way.
And as he was now going down,
his servants met him,
and told him, saying,
Thy son liveth.
Then inquired he of them,
the hour when he began to amend.
And they said unto him,
Yesterday, at the seventh hour,
the fever left him.
So the father knew,
that it was at the same hour
in which Jesus said unto him,
Thy son liveth,
and himself believed,
and his whole house.
This is again the second miracle
that Jesus did,
when he was come out of Judea into Galilee.
End of chapters one through four.
Recording by Michael Packard.